ABOUT

WP Subdomains is a plugin for wordpress that allows you to setup your main categories, pages and authors as subdomains. 
Other features include custom themes and site layout widgets.


MAIN FEATURES

  * Setup main categories as subdomains
  * Setup main pages as subdomains
  * Setup author archives as subdomains
  * Tie pages to categories so they only appear under that category or category subdomain
  * Pick a different theme for each subdomain than the main site’s theme
  * Sitelist widget, a sidebar widget that lists the Category subdomains of the site
  * Categories widget, a sidebar widget that lists the sub categories of that Category subdomain


TO INSTALL

	1. Unarchive
	2. Copy the wp-subdomains folder to the wordpress plugins directory
	3. Activate the plugins in wordpress


UPGRADING

As Above but first deactivate the existing plugin.
This is so when you activate the new plugin it'll run any required upgrades.

If upgrading from a version older than 0.6.1 see the NOTES section.


QUICK SUBDOMAINS HOWTO 

The plugin uses the Category slug, Page slug, or Author name as the subdomain name.

You'll need to configure your webserver for each subdomain you want to use. It uses the same wordpress install as your main blog.
If you run your own server you should know how todo this already (Apache users can just add ServerAlias to their existing vhost)
If you use managed hosting then add a subdomain and set it's document path to that of your main blog.

Be sure to add a DNS entry to point your subdomains to your server.

Note, some hosting services allow a forward all rule that will forward all subdomains to your server.

For each Category you want to convert, edit the category in wordpress admin and enable the "Make Subdomain" option.

For each Page you want to convert, edit the page in wordpress admin and add the custom field "wps_page_subdomain" with value "true"

For Author subdomains just switch enable the "Activate Author Subdomains" setting. You cannot pick and choose which authors are subdomains.
It is either all or none.


PLUGIN CONFIGURATION

Disable Plugin
Allows you to disable the plugin functionality whilst still being able to configure it

Make all Subdomains
Makes all main categories into subdomains by default, this can be overridden in the category settings

Activate Page Subdomains
Enable this if you want to make use of the Page Subdomains feature

Activate Author Subdomains
Enable this if you want authors to be subdomains. Note you can't configure which authors, it enables them all.

Activate Subdomain Themes
Turns on the custom themes for subdomains so you can have them display in a different theme to your main site

Redirect Old Urls
Will give 301 redirects to people coming to Subdomained Categories and Pages on old URLs. Doesn't work yet for posts. 

Keep Pages on Subdomain
Activate this for links to wordpress Pages to stay on the domain being viewed, unless they are category 
tied or subdomains themselves.

Subdomain Roots as Indexes
Activate this for subdomains root pages to be treated as an index page rather than an archive page.
(On by default prior to being an option - See NOTES section).

Use Archive Filtering
If you're on a Category or Author subdomain then date archives will show only what belongs to that Category/Author

Use Page Filtering
Turns on the ability to tie pages to specific subdomain categories


CATEGORY CONFIGURATION

NOTE: MIGHT NOT WORK IN IE (try Firefox if you have issues)

Make Subdomain
Will turn this Category into a subdomain

Exclude from All
When using "Make all Subdomains" will exclude this category

Select Category Theme
Select the theme for this category to use, needs "Activate Subdomain Themes" turned on to work

Custom Link Title
Add a custom title to the links to this subdomain

Show only tied pages
When viewing this subdomain will filter out pages not tied to it. 


PAGE CONFIGURATION

Subdomain Page
To make static pages act like subdomains, create a custom field variable "wps_page_subdomain" and set it to true.

Custom Theme
To set a theme for a page subdomain, create a custom field variable "wps_page_theme" and set it to the theme that 
you want to use. The theme name is the same as you'll find it on the edit categories page. Themes only work for pages 
that are setup as subdomains.

Tie a Page to a Category
To tie a static page to a subdomained category, so that it displays this URL category.yourdomain.com/static-page, 
create a custom field variable "wps_tie_to_category" and set it to the category ID.

Show Page on all Categories
To make a page show on all pages even if a category is set to only show tied pages, create a custom field varaible called 
"wps_showall" and set it to true.


These custom field names can be changed to whatever you want by editing the subdomains.php file.


NOTES

* If using Subdomains you'll probably want your cookie to span the subdomains and not just your own domain.
  In order to achieve this you need to add an option to your wp-config.php:
    define('COOKIE_DOMAIN', '.mydomain.com');
  Where mydomain.com is your domain name. Remember to add the preceeding dot (.) as this is what makes it work.
  
* If you used the original plugin this was based on and require some of it's custom functions they are still available
	In subdomains.php just uncomment the line that reads:
	//require_once ('plugin/deprecated.php');

* In 0.6.1 Subdomain Roots as Indexes became an option where before it was just on by default. If you want your subdomain
  root pages treated like your main blog index then switch this on. The differences you'll see are down to how your theme 
  handles an Index compared with an Archive.